README.md, before:

# JourneyGenie

JourneyGenie is a sophisticated AI-powered trip planning platform that streamlines the travel experience by offering personalized recommendations, seamless flight and hotel booking, and intuitive trip journaling. With the integration of external APIs and a user-friendly design, JourneyGenie is designed to cater to the needs of modern travelers, ensuring ease of use and accessibility. 

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have the following installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 12 or higher)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (comes with Node.js)

## How to Run the Website Locally

Follow these steps to set up and run the JourneyGenie website on your local machine.

### 1. Clone the Repository

First, clone the repository from the main branch using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NandishDPatel/JourneyGenie.git
```


### 2. Navigate to the Project Folder

Change into the `JourneyGenie` directory on your local machine:

```bash
cd JourneyGenie
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

Run the following command to install the necessary npm packages and dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

### 4. Run the Node Proxy Server

Start the Node.js proxy server by running the following command:

```bash
node proxy-server.js
```

### 5. Start the Development Server

In a new terminal go inside the JourneyGenie project folder and then run the following command to launch the frontend development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The website should now be running locally and accessible at `http://localhost:5173`.

## Additional Information

- Make sure to configure these 3 environment variables in the new file inside the JourneyGenie folder named as .env.local and set these 3 variables values for successfully running the project:
  ```bash
VITE_GOOGLE_PLACE_API_KEY = 
VITE_GOOGLE_GEMINI_TRIP_API_KEY=
VITE_GOOGLE_AUTH_CLIENT_ID=
  ```
- Need to put Google Place API by using google cloud website: https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/places-backend.googleapis.com?q=search&referrer=search&project=notifyhub-442711
- Need to use the website https://aistudio.google.com/prompts/new_chat?_gl=1*nwqe4g*_ga*MTAxNzMzNTk4OC4xNzM3NzUzMTE5*_ga_P1DBVKWT6V*MTczNzc1MzExOS4xLjAuMTczNzc1MzExOS42MC4wLjY0MDkyMjg3Mg.. for Gemini Trip Api Key
- Use your google client id for creating the valid google authenticator of Gmail for logging in and saving your trips to Firebase


## Project Photos
- Landing page
![landing page](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/67b5cc0c-d12e-4af2-a696-c32278d544a9)

- Google Authentication
![google auth](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a373b5de-798e-4b33-8f47-8bf7d5c574d6)

- Trip generation page
![trip generation page](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/225d19af-fa5e-48af-9b8f-1f2563ebac9d)

- Result after generating the trip for Chicago city
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8ee4583b-0703-4bbf-aba8-f1ad186b6f64)

- Flight search feature
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/32c8cb97-5d8d-4cf4-8bdf-56f460b74a52)

- Journal entries for keeping a track of different trips
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/534ef616-7bf5-4679-881b-e2b31d65601f)

Commit message:

project video and refactoring and removal of unecessary code done

README.md, after:

# JourneyGenie

JourneyGenie is a sophisticated AI-powered trip planning platform that streamlines the travel experience by offering personalized recommendations, seamless flight and hotel booking, and intuitive trip journaling. With the integration of external APIs and a user-friendly design, JourneyGenie is designed to cater to the needs of modern travelers, ensuring ease of use and accessibility. 

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have the following installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 12 or higher)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (comes with Node.js)

## How to Run the Website Locally

Follow these steps to set up and run the JourneyGenie website on your local machine.

### 1. Clone the Repository

First, clone the repository from the main branch using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NandishDPatel/JourneyGenie.git
```


### 2. Navigate to the Project Folder

Change into the `JourneyGenie` directory on your local machine:

```bash
cd JourneyGenie
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

Run the following command to install the necessary npm packages and dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

### 4. Run the Node Proxy Server

Start the Node.js proxy server by running the following command:

```bash
node proxy-server.js
```

### 5. Start the Development Server

In a new terminal go inside the JourneyGenie project folder and then run the following command to launch the frontend development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The website should now be running locally and accessible at `http://localhost:5173`.

## Additional Information

- Make sure to configure these 3 environment variables in the new file inside the JourneyGenie folder named as .env.local and set these 3 variables values for successfully running the project:
  ```bash
VITE_GOOGLE_PLACE_API_KEY = 
VITE_GOOGLE_GEMINI_TRIP_API_KEY=
VITE_GOOGLE_AUTH_CLIENT_ID=
  ```
- Need to put Google Place API by using google cloud website: https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/places-backend.googleapis.com?q=search&referrer=search&project=notifyhub-442711
- Need to use the website https://aistudio.google.com/prompts/new_chat?_gl=1*nwqe4g*_ga*MTAxNzMzNTk4OC4xNzM3NzUzMTE5*_ga_P1DBVKWT6V*MTczNzc1MzExOS4xLjAuMTczNzc1MzExOS42MC4wLjY0MDkyMjg3Mg.. for Gemini Trip Api Key
- Use your google client id for creating the valid google authenticator of Gmail for logging in and saving your trips to Firebase

- Also have to place your VITE_GOOGLE_PLACE_API_KEY inside the proxy-server.js file where it is written like googleAPIKEY="-".

- And then the project will be up and running:)

## Project Photos
- Landing page
![landing page](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/67b5cc0c-d12e-4af2-a696-c32278d544a9)

- Google Authentication
![google auth](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a373b5de-798e-4b33-8f47-8bf7d5c574d6)

- Trip generation page
![trip generation page](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/225d19af-fa5e-48af-9b8f-1f2563ebac9d)

- Result after generating the trip for Chicago city
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8ee4583b-0703-4bbf-aba8-f1ad186b6f64)

- Flight search feature
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/32c8cb97-5d8d-4cf4-8bdf-56f460b74a52)

- Journal entries for keeping a track of different trips
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/534ef616-7bf5-4679-881b-e2b31d65601f)
